Abstract/Introduction
Hi! Welcome to my work term report site for my experience in the wonderful start up world that is Tulip Retail. On this site you will learn what I learned, did and tried for 8 months at my position as a Software Developer in Tulip Retail.

Information about the Employer
Tulip Retail is a start up company that started in April 2013. The CEO and Founder is Ali Asaria who also founded Well.ca which is Canada's largest on-line health, baby and beauty store. Tulip focuses on working with experience driven traditional retailers who have a vision of digital commerce, that together with the physical store, creates a blended on-line, mobile and in-store experience for consumers that is the best of all worlds.

Tulip's two offices are located in Toronto and the Lang Tannery Building in Kitchener. I worked out of the latter right in the heart of the Innovation District. 

The size of the team is only about 20 people. It is made of the sales and development teams. It is comprised of some of the most talented and easiest people to get a long with I have ever met. 

The flagship product of the company is the Sales Associate Tablet. The Tulip App that is placed on the tablets offers a fluid and beautiful user interface design. It empowers the sales associates from any retailer to make the sale. 

Tulip also has an entire arsenal of retail web tools to help with any retailer. The list includes front end web stores, inventory/order management, metrics and warehouse applications.

Goals
Learn PHP, AJAX, and other Web Technologies.
Going into these 8 months I had little web developing experience. I have only worked with basic HTML and a little bit of JavaScript. Over the course of the two terms I learned an outstanding amount about PHP. It's become one of the programming languages that I am most comfortable with. I learned how to work with AJAX calls  and use them to my advantage. I also learned how to create and use APIs. My knowledge of GIT was also strengthened having to work with it everyday. Before the terms I didn't know much about web design patterns, but on the job I had the Model-View-Controller pattern down. I was also introduced to technologies like CHEF, XHProf, CodeIgniter and MySQL. After the 8 months I am at a point where I can create a working web application, with both a front-end and back-end. 

Take part in a Hack Day and lead the team in both development and presentation.
At Tulip we set a day aside for a Hack Day. It is dedicated to working on a new project with the aim of presenting a prototype or relativity working product at the end of the work day. We could choose any project we wanted. Me and the another co-op Patrick decided to work on a web application that can be used by the team called TeamLunch. On Wednesday's the team at Tulip always has a Team Lunch that is catered by any restaurant we want. The idea behind TeamLunch was that our HR person can easily make the orders for each Wednesday. The site allowed people to log in, view the menu for the coming week's lunch and place an order. We decided to add an extra feature that will allow users to vote for next week's restaurant. We built the website on a CodeIgniter framework and I created the front-end with Twitter's bootstrap. During the Hack Day project I assumed the role of a Program Manager. I had to make sure everyone on our team was working on something we needed. I had to make some tough decisions when pushed up against the wall by time. I presented our prototype to the company at the end of the day and it was well received. I learned what it was like to lead a team and build an entire web application from the bottom up.

Start and complete an entire project and serve as the main developer.
My main project I worked on was integrating a referral program from a third party software company to be  used on Well.ca. I started the project from the beginning and watched it go live on my last day. It involved me creating new functions for our API for the third party.. It gathered customer/subscription information of Well.ca's customers. I had to change the behaviour of how the site handles subscribers to the newsletter.  It will help prevent spamming the incorrect email addresses. The project also called for some CSS and JavaScript knowledge. I learned many things and a couple of tricks that will be useful in the future.

Reduce the latency for Well.ca's website by 20%.
We noticed that there were a couple of pages on the Well.ca site that could be more time efficient. I was tasked with the goal of making the site faster by about 20%. Although I didn't have enough time to put my plan into action I was taught how to track the web servers and databases. How to view which pages were being slower then a set threshold. I also was taught how to use XHProf which is a tool used to capture how long it takes for a PHP program to run and which functions took the longest. Before I left Tulip I created a document for them, telling them the slow queries I found that will speed up the loading of the site. Most of them involved indexing certain columns of the database. Before the work term I had no idea what indexing meant, but now I have a great understanding of it and the advantages it can provide.

Job Description
As a Software Developer at Tulip Retail I was a part of the development team. I was working on the team that fixed defects, worked on enhancements and created features at the request of Well.ca. We worked on and maintained every aspect of the front-end site, order management and warehouse tools. I took part in the daily scrums and Wednesday team meetings. I started working with small bug fixes and tickets and then I moved to my bigger projects. My main project was integrating the third party referral program to work with the Well.ca site. I also played a big part on working on the tool that allowed Well.ca's employees create custom product lists for landing pages. 

Over the course of the eight months I learned about: PHP, AJAX, MySQL, Ext JS, XHProf, GIT, CSS, JavaSscript and unit testing. 

Conclusions
If your audience were asked to describe the contents of your website, what would you want them to say?
WORK HERE. WORK HERE. WORK HERE. Especially if you are in the co-op program the experience you will get here is amazing. I learned so much here and I was suprised by how much I was treated as just another full time employee. You will be in awe because of how much responsibility and freedom is given to you.

Acknowledgements
I want to let the entire team at Tulip Retail know how much I loved working there. They taught me a lot about the industry and technology. My team members on the Well.ca team helped me along with my development. It was so much fun working for a start up especially one that had an enthusiastic CEO and team. It was eye opening to learn about the start up community. 

The team made going to work not feel like work. It was more like hanging out with a couple of friends while doing some coding. Everyone was welcoming and talented. 

Special thanks to Milosz, who was my team lead and answered any questions I had about the code base or tools. He taught me a large number of things, that will come in handy in the future. Over the course of the 8 months I also made some mistakes but he always remained calm and led me to the correct solution. 

I'd also like to thank Diana and Patrick who were my other team mates on Well.ca. they answered any questions I had and also kept me having a  fun time there. 